Your child’s tonsils and adenoids help
prevent infection by trapping germs.
But tonsils and adenoids can
become more harmful than helpful.
Your tonsils are two small lumps of tissue
in the back of your throat.
Adenoids are also lumps of tissue,
but higher in the throat, behind your nose.
A tonsillectomy is surgery
to remove your tonsils.
An adenoidectomy is surgery
to remove your adenoids.
Tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy are often
done at the same time, called a T&A.
You may have a T&A for:
Frequent infections of your
nose and throat, or
Infections that don’t
go away with antibiotics
Ongoing swelling of your tonsils
or adenoids can cause:
Sore throat and trouble swallowing
Snoring and sleep problems related to breathing
Trouble breathing through your nose
Runny nose, and
Frequent ear infections
Before T&A surgery,
follow your doctor’s directions for
eating, drinking and taking medicine.
During T&A surgery,
you will have general anesthesia
so you will be asleep and pain-free.
Your doctor removes the tonsils and adenoids
using tools that can reach them.
Surgery takes between 30 and 60 minutes.
After T&A surgery,
you can usually go home within a few hours.
If your child has frequent
nose and throat infections,
ask your doctor if surgery can help.